---

---

----

# DX300 <br>DIGITAL I/O EXPANDER

----

<TwoCols>
<template #left>

<WideSubtitleBlock is-subtitle>

## Description
</WideSubtitleBlock>

Control the world with the DX300 digital I/O expander! This unique and useful part can read or write up to three on/off signals at once over simple I/O or XBus.

It is sure to find its ideal application in answering many of your control and signal processing needs. Contact us to request samples.

<WideSubtitleBlock>

## Pin configuration
</WideSubtitleBlock>

<ImgContainer src="/images/18.webp" alt="DX300" />

_NOTE: At any given time, the DX300 is either in **input mode** or **output mode**. Writing an XBus value to the DX300 will put its simple I/O pins into **output mode** with the specified output values.
Reading an XBus value from the DX300 will put its pins into **input mode**, clearing any previously set output values._

</template>
<template #right>

<WideSubtitleBlock>

## Usage
</WideSubtitleBlock>

- **Write** a 3-digit number to any XBus pin to change the state of the simple I/O pins. The three digits of the value written will be used to turn the simple I/O pins on (100) or off (0) depending on if the digit is a 1 or a 0.

- **Read** from any XBus pin to get a 3-digit number that captures the state of the simple I/O pins. The digits of the resulting XBus value will be set to either a 1 or a 0 depending on if the simple I/O pin is on (100) or off (0).

- When representing the state of the simple I/O pins, the value in the ones column corresponds to p0, while the tens column corresponds to p1, and the hundreds column corresponds to p2.


<WideSubtitleBlock>

## Example table
</WideSubtitleBlock>

<div class="--flex --justify-center">

| XBus Value | p0  | p1  | p2  |
|:----------:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|    100     |  0  |  0  | 100 |
|    011     | 100 | 100 |  0  |
|    000     |  0  |  0  |  0  |
</div>

</template>
</TwoCols>


<WideSubtitleBlock>

## DX300 Example circuit
</WideSubtitleBlock>

#### STEPPER MOTOR CONTROLLER

The following circuit controls a stepper motor using 诚尚Micro’s DX300 digital I/O expander to control the **motor-0**, **motor-1**, and **motor-2** signals and built-in simple I/O pin p0 to control the remaining **motor-3** signal.

<ImgContainer src="/images/19.webp" alt="DX300 Example circuit" />
<br>
<ImgContainer src="/images/20.webp" alt="DX300 Example circuit signal" />